"Not academic teachings, not just only for academics, but it is to do practicing. Even
Pada Chigi gives us this, as we say, three verses. Verses that come from studying, verses
that come from contemplating, verses that come from practicing meditation, all that
teaching tells us. But the ultimate goal is practices. If we start, we contemplate, then
we become an act of action. It won't bear the fruit, exactly what we really wanted,
according to teaching. If we let it become as the language of Mamsambhava, or Buddha
Chitrimul himself, or the Nagarjuna, and all these great master's thetums of Armita,
they are practices. They are started, they are contemplated, then final result of the
study and contemplate is practices. When you come to the practices, and then Buddha
teaching is vast, and there is over a hundred world of teachings, sutta, abhidharma, vinaya
teaching, dandar teaching, all that. But those great master's are condensed, how to practice
that. That is what nakol is practiced. So it's manual, easy to practice, it's simple.
Particularly, M.R. Chigi is very simple, simple and essence, condensed practices. Particularly,
M.R. Chigi is mostly its teachings of the inner tantras, all inner tantras. Dhamma teaching
has also some sutta teachings, and as Dhamma discovery, and as well, outer tantras. But
most of the time, it's inner tantras. Inner tantra is then, hundreds of the essence of
the Mahayava teaching, essence of the Anu-yoga teaching, essence of the Ati-yoga teaching,
all the combination of these three inner tantra teachings. That is what it is. And that also
summarizes all that, and most of the time, Dhamma teachings are known as "la zu tuk-sung"
in the Tibetan. "La zu tuk-sung." "Lama tuk-la" and "zo kwa," "zo qin," "zo qin practice."
Those are the Dhamma teachings. "Lama" means practices of the gurus or lamas, many best
on the Guru Pima Sambha, and also other teachings, but it's practicing on the Guru Pima Sambha.
It's all in today's variety of the teachings on the Guru Pima Sambha. Practicing Guru Pima Sambha
as a wrath of deity, practicing Guru Pima Sambha peace of deity, practicing Guru Pima Sambha
as a semi-wrath of deities, or practicing Guru Pima Sambha as the pacifying deity, or the
increasing,
monetizing, subjugating, relating to the variety of that practice, all known as
Dhamma practices, lamas. And then this "la zu," second is "zo qin" practices.
"Zu" has generally been isolated into any, it is known as "completion practices."
There are two "completion practices" as you all know, that is "zo qin" or in the end I said "com
pletion
practices of the, with the characteristics and completion practices of the, with all the
characteristics." So these are all known as "zo qin" practices or the "zo qin" practices.
"Zoram," maybe I should use "zoram" practices. "Zoram," "zoram" is a completion practice. So
correctly, with the characteristics, with all the practices. Now I'm sure you know what that
character means. It means, means it's practicing of the such as, if I simply say "zar," "lung,"
"dungu" practices, those all known as characteristics of the completion practices.
"Zar" is general practices. "Lung" is wind practices. "Dhamma" is inner heat practices.
And generally all those are connected. Those are known as the characteristics
of the completion practices. Why is called characteristics? Because this is something,
why is called also "completion" because it is inherited from natural quality of our
physical conditions. It's everything is all here. Channel is completed, wind is completed
and essence element is completed. When we are activating that, we begin to reveal the beauty
and the nature of each of those. Finally the primordial was well discovered. Those are known
as the completion stage of practice with the characteristics because "zar" is a
characteristic. It means it has its formation, it has explanation, it has all the variety.
And along with the wind, "A" it has also characteristics, it has a formation, it has
a lot of different, this, that. I mean it's all structured in mundane levels that, levels.
And then essence element is also characteristics. It has different shapes and forms and feelings
and this and that, all combination. That is therefore this is called characteristics
or something existing. But when you use that exactly with techniques, techniques or according
instructions, it will revert finally. Eventually it will revert. The primordial was a clay-like
luminosity called that is ultimate goal. With all the ultimate goal of the clay-like luminosity,
that one common practice is always in the Buddha teaching mentioned is sensation practices.
It's not just really, it is good, it has a lot of benefit, but it's a sensation.
Sensation means it has grasping, clinging. Grasping, clinging, whether it's good or bad,
ultimately it will make trouble. It is clinging. Clinging that won't go far.
But for that reason, always everything, channel, wind, correct, the essence element of Tomo
practice
have to be moved to the clay-like luminosity status. Clay-like luminosity is beyond the
conception. That is zuokin practice, zuokin. Then with all the characteristics practice is zuokin,
zuokin practice. Zuokin practice is beyond the conceptions, beyond the grasping. You're not
practicing conception. We practice it beyond the conception. Therefore, it is called beyond
the characteristics practices. So all those teachings, teachings are known as generally
zoram practices and particularly zuokin. So there my teaching, that zuokin teaching,
which has so many varieties of the zuokin teachings, I mean not variety, but many different
lineage teachings. Lineage from the Murpema Samala, lineage from the Muman Mathara, lineage from
the
Great Aslee, where are Jana teachings. Each of these varieties of the dharma teachings of
that directly explaining of the zuokin teachings. Zuokin teaching. So those teachings are known as
the essence of the inner center, particularly zuokin teachings. That is called la, sorry, zoram
or zuokin teachings. And then tuk-sang, so la, zuok, tauk-sang, I said. Tau, tau is known as the
great verse in the mind, but that particularly related with the practicing of the jainese,
our loknihara practices. Jainese is so important in the, in the vajayala teaching, or particularly
in the, in the Tibetan Buddhism. And because in the teaching said, jainese practice is that,
is the essential practices because it's compassion, love and kindness. The ultimately there is the
great, the great, clear line of the ministry arising as externally, that is compassion.
Compassion is a part of the nature of the mind, nature of our qualities. So jainese is that great
compassion, a great form of the form of duty, known as jainese. Ultimately jainese is a compassion.
So there is a variety of the teaching. And then generally in the Tibetan teaching always said
Tibetan is very much connected with our loknihara, jainese. Since the, where the history begins is
connected with, with our loknihara, you know, I'm sure you heard, many of you heard that,
I mean, no, you already know that. Tibetan rest begins with the monkeys and the mountain, the
female, uh, uh, female gods, goddesses or female, the cannibal goddess in the teachings, the
combination
of the monkey and that female, uh, uh, dam, demon or cannibal combination, the Tibetan rest begins.
And that, that what's called this monkey is the emanation of the jainese. And that female, uh,
the cannibal was the emanation of the thalas. So always in the, even his story, they said the
Tibetan is very much connected to the our loknihara, jainese. And then because of that, all the
teachings, all that in the Tibetan, they all say, even the child, when the babies will begin to
call
mothers, mother as Amma, at that moment they know how to chime the Ammani premium, the matter of
our loknihara. They know that, how, that tells how much Tibetan are connected with our loknihara.
Therefore, then there is also a lot of variety teachings of the jainese practice known as
tukdap, tukdap meaning, the practice. So those are the one, many practices and then related with
the
hirukas and so forth, all that in my teaching. So that is the one that I really did, then my
teaching.
And now, then my teaching is also, there's so many the thetengams came, as I said, around the 11th
century, in the, in the, around that time or the beginning of the 11th century until now. So many
great thetengams. What are those thetengams, generally? Thetengams are in a, they are the
emanation of the 25 disciples from Gurope and Masambhava or 80 Mahasadas of the Yerba regions,
or many other those great enlightened beings. And simple way, in the Sotra level, if we say,
they are great Bodhisattva and Mahasathas, they emanate it. Then, in a way, if I say common
language,
they are, with the Gurope and Masambhava, with the Hinchodya, with the Kintuson, these all great
Mahasadas, mutual agreement, meant they will take the reincarnation, emanation, again and again in
order
to benefit to all the living beings and particularly to revere this them of teachings. And that I
just
mentioned yesterday that Mungkaba Gungti Jhupa that designated and provides those meanings.
So there is variety thetengams came. Why that many thetengams need to come? And the teaching said,
what the Gurope and Masambhava said in the teaching, teaching said, because thetengams are very,
them are teachings, the thetengams are very important, because time is changing. Generation,
upper generation, time is changing. Therefore, human mentality is changing, situation is changing,
circumstances are changing. Therefore, always individuals are looking something new,
new things. Even the reality is the same teaching, but they are looking new things.
For that reason, I, Gurope and Masambhava, hated many thetengams. And then together with it, also
those thetengams, teachings, are always in the teaching said, they are so powerful, so important,
beneficial to remove the disturbances of those different generations. And balancing the elementus
and really activating the strength and the balance, energy of the earth and elements, and remove
the
walls and the famines, the disease and so forth. Those reasons, then many thetengams came, revealed
one after another, those great theta teachings, one after another. So today we are going to the
thetengams. When we are talking about the theta, we are talking about the history of how this takes
place, how that happens, and how that happens.
This story of the theta teaching, as I said yesterday, in one way they are so, so convertible,
simple and ordinary, and drawn to the legacy, regular, really nothing, any big experience.
But the other side is amazing, marvelous, unbelievable, incredible. I mean, if you,
when you read or when you look, when you, we go through this, the histories, one after another,
it's really marvelous. So it's a combination of that. That means, in the spiritual level,
this individualist, where they perform, is totally beyond that mind. He just said beyond the mind.
But in the kind of mundane level, in the world level, they are so drawn to the earth, so simple,
so humble, so follow with the exact system of the where things should be drawn in the mundane world
.
So this, in a way, with the reverse theta teachings, there's also in a way a combination of that,
perform the level of the mundane kind of where things should be drawn, and same time,
additional with it, with the power of the realization, incredible, unbelievable activities.
So now we go through again, one more time, we say that how we